(Waves roll and rumble)
(Children laugh)
(Rhythmic pounding ofwaves)
- Father would be amazed.
- At our new engine?
At my reading matter.
I think he would approve of both.
(Hissing and clanking)
Trevithick makes bold claims for this engine.
50 fathoms.
- Can it really drain so deep?
- I hope so.
We've just sunk the last of our capital into it.
Free trading is a capital offence.
Take him to Truro Gaol! Stand aside!
No, no!
- Ted!
- Go on!
Ted!
Go on!
- Where were they caught?
- Tregunna Cove.
- Tregunna?
- You may well be surprised!
- Last place anyone'd expect a landing.
- 'Tis why we chose it.
'Tis full o' rocks an' teasy currents.
So was itjust ill luck?
Or did someone betray us?
Gentlemen, it is a pleasure to have you with us
on our adventure.
Pleasure's ours, Mr Poldark.
The joy's gone out of Leisure
since George Warleggan acquired more shares.
- There's talk o' lower earnings, even closures.
- That won't happen while I have a stake.
Your stake is now so small as to be insignificant.
As is mine.
All we can do is take our dividends
and watch others make decisions.
Now our affections lie with Grace.
She may be temperamental,
but at least she's ours. Shall we go to work?
Sir?
Thank you.
Ted Carkeek's been arrested.
He's in court this afernoon.
I must go.
My knee still pains me, sir.
- All the time?
- Only when it go stiff.
'Tis like someone turn a key an' lock it.
Dr Choake did advise to...cut it off.
A convenient solution, Charlie. For him.
(Groans)
I want you to keep it bound for a week
until I come to see you again.
I don't see it's needful
for you to be fiddlin' with it so oft.
Rosina would get along fine as she is.
If I can help your daughter, that's surely
a good thing, is it not, Mr Hoblyn?
- Will any ofyou go to court?
- An' see Ted sent for transportation?
- Ha! Or worse.
- Don't say that!
'Tis gauger Vercoe to blame.
He'll not turn a blind eye.
- There's talk of an informer.
- Since when?
Mr Trencrom sent word today.
An' t'ain't like Trencrom to raise false alarm.
- But who could it be?
- Trencrom say it could be anyone.
Do I look distinguished?
Perhaps you should be aiming for "severe".
Is that the best way to help Ted, I wonder?
Mighty fligged out for the mine, Francis!
- I'm due in court, Aunt.
- On what charge?
Carrying out my duties as a magistrate.
Come, Master Jeremy,
let's have you scrubbed up.
Ross, I don' think you should go.
Ted is one of my tenants - and workers.
And a fellow free trader!
How will it look if you're seen to sympathise?
As if you're involved - which you are.
Three drops in our cove already this year.
But this was not our cove.
- And no one can point the finger.
- Yet.
What would you have me do?
Not go to court.
And tell Trencrom
he may no longer use our cove.
And save himself our fee?
So we have even less coming in?
Is that what you want?
Are you not afeared?
To think o' one of our own betrayin' us?
Of course, I'm concerned. I'll be on my guard.
I will look twice at even our closest friends.
- But still go to court?
- I think I must.
I'll fetch my hat.
Was that a yawn, Horace?
Shall you find this place awfully dreary
afer a year in London?
We needn't stay long,
once our engagement's announced tonight.
- Uncle Ray.
- Caroline, my dear.
Well, are you ready to embrace your fate?
Do you suppose Mrs Figg
has any marzipan for Horace?
Shall we ride to Truro and find some for you?
(Dog yaps)
So...she has agreed to your engagement?
Well, I think so.
Unwin, I seldom entertain.
And the sole reason for tonight's dinner
is to make an announcement.
You'd better be sure there is one.
(Coughing)
That cough has worsened, Aunt.
Would you have me call Dr Choake?
If I wished to be bled to death.
(Coughs) I've... I've already sent for someone.
Dr Enys?
Someone far more sensible!
(Bell rings, people chatter)
An' that conclude my evidence, Your Worship.
Only to add that I hope 'ee see fit
to send these men to the gallows.
For how else may we break our shores
ofthis iniquitous trade?
We thank you for your diligence, Mr Vercoe.
You may stand down.
- A straightforward case, I think?
- Hmm.
In the context ofthe monstrous events
still unfolding in France?
- I agree with you.
- My concern...
Which I share, is...
how to balance severity ofjudgment
with the appearance of mercy.
The appearance of mercy?
For as you say, our duty is to allay rebellion,
not stoke it.
- But the punishment...
- Oh, I agree.
It should not be a crown ofthorns
for them to wear with pride.
Yet ifthey wish to make martyrs ofthemselves...
Then let us disappoint them.
We both know the type.
- Bone idle.
- One has only to look at them.
Then let us sentence them
to the last thing that they would seek.
Ignominious...backbreaking...
..without a shred of honour.
Sentenced...to three months' hard labour.
(Murmuring)
ROSS:
I take my hat offto you, Francis.
You played him at his own game.
Something I've never achieved!
Can you live with yourself?
Oh, I think so.
I know for a fact that Halse has brandy
in his cellar which came from such a run.
Don't let that reassure you.
With an informer at large, this won't be the last
case which comes before the court.
And our friend Halse will be keen
to make the next man pay.
Dr Enys. How fares our little backwater?
- A good deal duller than London, I imagine.
- Hmm, you imagine right.
Having just returned, I'm already yawning.
Can you prescribe me a pick-me-up?
- Do your mining interests not invigorate?
- On the contrary.
But perhaps your interest in Wheal Leisure
is not in actual mining?
- I hear you're now physician at Killewarren.
- Mr Penvenen keeps healthy. I rarely see him.
Whereas I saw a good deal of his niece
in London.
- I trust she was well.
- You've not heard from her?
- Nor did I expect to.
- Then her arrival here today, with Unwin,
for their special announcement this evening
will not inconvenience you?
Not in the least.
Good day to you, sir.
Why, Dr Enys.
- How diverting.
- Miss Penvenen.
- How is the scurvy in Sawle?
- Better, I thank you.
The potato crop did not fail this year.
And there were apples.
But no oranges?
Dear me, were there no other ladies
hereabouts to whom you might appeal
and tug on the heart strings,
in the name of charity?
I hope you're in good health, Miss Penvenen.
I...bid you good day.
We meet after a year's absence
and you haven't a civil word for me?
I'm old-fashioned in these matters.
I thought civility should be shown on both sides.
Would you excuse me?
- Verity!
- My dears!
- How is she?
- All the better for seeing you.
I can only stay a few days.
It's good to have you home.
(Inhales)
(Door opens and closes)
Ah...the prodigal returns.
How was London?
Invigorating.
And home to many fine banks.
I wonder, is it not time
we had one of our own in Truro?
I have news...of an interesting document.
Mm?
A promissory note for £1 ,000
with interest at 40%.
The lender believes it will never be repaid.
- Ifwe offered to buy the debt...
- Why would we do that?
Because the debtor would then be at our mercy.
You seem lively tonight.
Could it be that Jeremy's safe abed
and we're dining out at Killewarren
after a year ofturnips and tetty pie?
Take care you don't overdo the port
and trip over Caroline Penvenen's intended.
Perhaps if I did, my husband
would pay me attention.
Have I been so neglectful of late?
Ask your other wife. Grace.
True, she is more taxing than you.
But not as lovely.
So tonight you'll have eyes for none but me?
Tonight I'll have eyes for none but you!
- New dress?
- If only.
- You?
- How I wish.
Shall we go in?
Do you not agree that since I've become an MP,
Cornwall's a better place?
In what regard?
Well, only today we've seen the arrest
of more smugglers.
- For which you take credit?
- Mm.
Since I've made it my mission to curb
lawlessness among the vulgars.
Which reminds me. May I seek your advice
on the shameful lack of banking premises
in Truro?
Awkward?
Not for me.
Last time we met, he went head over heels.
I doubt he'll be keen to repeat the experience.
RAY: Please be seated everyone.
Thank you, sir.
- Thank you, sir.
- You're welcome.
Must you sit here, Unwin? Have you not had
enough of my company in London?
I hope to have it officially after tonight.
Captain Poldark, have you been in any scrapes
since I've been away?
I was most diverted
by your last court appearance.
I try to avoid the place
whenever possible, ma'am.
- By leading a virtuous life?
- I'm attempting to, ma'am.
I fear the execution is often beyond me.
ELIZABETH: She's very striking, isn't she?
Do you believe that what the eye does not
admire, the heart does not desire?
It's always been so with me.
- As you should know.
- Should I?
We see little of each other now.
I'm not sure I know you at all.
Nor I, you.
But that's hardly surprising.
How much did we ever know of each other?
- Even before...
- Before you went away?
It seems like a lifetime ago.
In some ways.
- So you have returned, Captain.
- Aye...er...ma'am.
I was plagued with a fever
and have come back to convalesce.
Well, doubtless you'll enjoy
exploring the coves hereabouts.
Looking for the smugglers, are you, sir?
But surely after your last visit,
you've quite put 'em down?
Aye, but they're damnably sly, ma'am.
One can never be certain how they're disguised.
I hope you do not suppose me to be such a one.
(Laughs and slams table with hand)
It's only now that I realise how young you were
when you promised to marry me.
I should have been old enough
to know my own mind.
Let us agree that you were young.
- And then you thought I was dead.
- Did I?
Or did I think I loved Francis better?
How soon I discovered my mistake.
This is some pleasantjest, surely?
If it is, then it's against myself.
Is it so astonishing that a woman who changed
her mind once would change it twice?
Cannot a woman love two men?
Cannot a man love two women?
I'm with Francis, and happy to be so.
We're alike in many ways.
But a piece of my heart will always be yours,
as a piece of yours will always be mine.
UNWIN: Treat me
with deference when we are married.
CAROLINE: Ifthat day ever comes.
Then name it, Caroline, I beg you.
I deplore beggars.
How vexing you are!
Infuriating woman!
How is your friend Dr Enys?
Wedded to his work, ma'am,
with no time for distractions.
Would you count me a "distraction"?
I shouldn't presume to connect you
with Dr Enys in any way.
I'm sure he'll wish you well
on the occasion of your engagement.
Aunt Agatha's very angry with me
for calling you.
- What troubles her?
- A cough, a sore throat.
And she tells me a fever,
but I can find no sign of it.
I need no physician.
Little Verity's perfectly capable oftending me.
But when the time comes
for her to return home?
This is her home!
What is there to interest her elsewhere?
A husband?
Trenwith has never been the same
since she left.
Can you diagnose the complaint?
I'll do my best.
Are you married, sir?
I'm not, ma'am.
- My friends, my friends...
- (Music stops)
..I thank you, one and all,
forjoining me
on this auspicious occasion.
My dear niece, Caroline,
will soon no longer be under my charge.
For in December, she comes of age.
But before that,
I do believe I have to resign her
to the care of another.
Unwin? Where is he?
Caroline?
I believe I saw him heading for his horse.
Oh dear, I hope I haven't said anything
to upset him.
Shall we have dancing?
(Crowd murmurs)
(Music resumes)
Can you tell what ails her?
I have my suspicions. I'll call again tomorrow.
In the meantime...
- What should I give her?
- Honey, juniper, a little warm milk...
..and your very best attention.
Thank you.
(Lively music plays)
There's a novelty. A married couple
who enjoy each other's company.
But then, did they not marry for love?
- Allegedly.
- Dear me! How reckless.
Francis, how good to see you.
I regret I cannot return the compliment.
This spite is pointless, Francis. From your
cousin, I've come to expect no reason...
Then expect none from me.
Good evening, George.
Ross...
I...had not expected to see you here.
Ray Penvenen will insist on inviting the riff-raff.
I hope your new mine prospers.
It will.
I wish I had your confidence.
(Sighs) Must you be envious even ofthat?
(Slams door shut)
We will use whatever means necessary
to acquire that promissory note.
DEMELZA: What Was Elizabeth saying to you?
ROSS: Nothing of importance.
May I join you?
(Hissing and clanking)
The water levels have fallen at least a foot.
By my calculation.
- And you'll continue to monitor them?
- Surely.
- So the engine appears to be working?
- It would appear so.
What's our plan?
Continue to drain. Tomorrow we blast.
- Then sift the ore, and ifwe're lucky...
- Copper!
- (Chuckles)
- The elusive Trevorgie lode!
Let's get started!
I don't mind sayin', when Mr Francis
first came aboard, I had my doubts,
but he's shown himself more'n equal to the task.
- Your sort aren't welcome round here.
- What's that?
'Twill be ol' Nick Vigus.
Folk say he's the informer.
MAN: backstabber round here!
- That wouldn't surprise me.
- (Shouting continues)
- Backstabber, I say!
- Why do these men attack you, Nick?
- No idea, Cap'n.
I ain't done nothin'.
- Why would they think you had?
- Damned if I know.
Damned you may be!
I suspect they attack you
for your habit ofturning against your fellows.
I, sir?
You, sir.
Letting Jim Carter take the blame
for your poaching escapade?
Pocketing George Warleggan's guineas
to testify against me in court?
I ain't the informer.
But since 'ee do accuse me, let me ask,
why shouldn't a man sell himself
to the highest bidder?
Times like this, 'tis every man for himself.
Betray us, you betray yourself.
Fine words for gentlefolk to spout,
with no notion ofwhat it's like to live in squalor,
even if 'ee think 'ee do
by slummin' with scullery maids!
Cap'n Ross! Cap'n Ross!
Let 'im be! Let 'im be.
Have Dr Enys clean him up.
What price would you be willing to pay
for that promissory note?
- Any.
- I thought so.
What will you do with it?
That will depend.
I cannot believe you would call.
After my reception from Francis last night?
I don't expect you to be disloyal to Francis,
but don't you personally think this feud
has gone on long enough?
You know Francis when his mind is set.
He holds you to blame
for the prosecution of Ross.
Ross!
I wish I could enjoy the favour in your eyes
that he does.
But let me be frank with you.
Ross and I have never seen eye to eye.
On my part, it's no more
than a clash of personality.
On his, it's a disease.
He plunges from one disaster to another
and blames me for all ofthem.
- I hardly think that's fair...
- It comes of being born into money.
But with it comes lack ofjudgment.
His ill-conceived smelting venture
was doomed from the start.
When he was out of pocket as a result,
he was too proud to ask friends for assistance
and instead signed a promissory note
for £1 ,000 at 40%  interest.
When he ultimately beggars himself,
and Francis with him,
no doubt he'll accuse me of stealing the copper
from his ground overnight.
May I ask...how you learned
ofthis promissory note?
It came into the hands of my Uncle Cary.
And what does your uncle intend to do with it?
To let me deal with it.
Perhaps you'd like me
to make a gift of it to Ross?
Would you?
If I thought he might drop his enmity.
Do you ask it of me?
What would you ask in return?
Merely to be admitted to your friendship again.
I'll see what I can do.
George Warleggan?
I remember the first time
Francis brought you here,
fligged out in your frills and fallallery!
I remember it, too.
Speak up, boy, I'm a little deaf.
And still above ground.
There should be a law to kill off old crones.
Velvets and silks you wore.
'Twas plain your mother had no taste.
If you were the last ofthe Poldarks,
I'd do it myself.
And you, staring about like a bull calf
that had strayed from its stall.
But never fear, your great-nephews
are digging their own graves without my help.
Goodbye, old woman.
I hope when I next call, you'll be six feet below.
I expect Jud'll be waitin' for the plantin' to be
finished afore he come sneakin' back?
Don't speak o' that lizard to me!
- Perhaps he's the informer.
- That braggashans?
- He's too loose-lipped to keep 'is trap shut.
- (Horse neighs and gallops)
While passing your husband's mine, I came
upon a man who was bruised and bleeding.
His name was...Vigus.
I know him. He works there on tribute.
He tells me there's a deal of ill-feeling
about on account ofthe rumours.
Rumours?
Of an informer.
Ah, but you're so out ofthe way here,
perhaps the tales do not reach you.
At any rate, the rumours make people tetchy.
Whoever gave Vigus a beating
must have strong suspicions
as to his involvement in the trade.
And were you able to discover who it was?
No, I was not minded to at this stage.
I hope the assailant will realise his error
and not repeat it.
One can only feel for the man's wife,
having such temper to contend with.
Dr Enys! 'Ave 'ee 'eard o' Nick Vigus?
Captain Poldark did clout 'im,
yet he swears he's no traitor.
Why would any suspect him?
We all suspect each other, sir.
Do make the blood run cold
to think one of our own be false.
- Dr Enys.
- Charlie!
Do 'ee tell Rosina how my health is mended
since I turn my hand to sail making?
I could provide handsome,
should I choose to wed again.
- Do you have someone in mind?
- Maybe.
Maybe I have someone in mind myself.
Nay, don't 'ee flutter yer eyes at surgeon.
He's not for thee.
Nor for any maid, sir. I'm wedded to my work.
I thought I might find you here,
tending your beloved fisher folk!
If you'll excuse me, Miss Penvenen,
I've no time to...
Let me apologise.
For my discourtesy, the other day.
There. You weren't expecting that.
Do you dislike me so very much?
Dislike?
If coming between me and my work every day
for the last 12 months,
if being unable to forget your voice
or the way you turn your head,
or the lights in your hair,
ifwanting to hear that you're married
and dreading to hear that you're married,
ifthat's dislike...
Perhaps you can identify
these symptoms for me?
Do you ride for pleasure?
I shall be in the woods by Killewarren
just afer eight tomorrow.
DEMELZA: McNeil Was here.
Encouraged by your smiles of last night,
no doubt?
Driven by the sight ofthe bruisin'
you gave Nick Vigus?
You think he comes here for me.
But what if he comes here for you?
- What if he knows something?
- Ofwhat?
Your dealings with Trencrom?
The more he comes calling...
The more likely he is to sniff something out.
You cannot now offer discouragement
without arousing his suspicions.
So I'm to blame?
You missed a treat.
George Warleggan graced us with his presence.
- What did he want?
- To be reconciled with you.
Is that why he called when my back was turned?
I know he's been vicious in his pursuit of Ross,
but I begin to think he would make amends
if he could.
- How?
- By not taking advantage ofthe power he holds.
You know he owns the ground we walk on.
What harm can it do for you to modify
your hostility towards him?
If only to deter him
from wielding power over us all?
Perhaps I'll ride over and see him.
Wished me dead, he did.
Called me "old crone".
What's that, Aunt?
Big mistake.
Francis.
Elizabeth tells me you called today.
I hope you took the visit
in the spirit in which it was intended.
I believe I did.
And I hope you will take what I have to say
in the same spirit.
You will never again set foot in my house.
Nor approach me, or my family,
including my son.
He is no longer your godson.
We are no longer your friends.
You may turn us out of Trenwith if you wish.
It will be a small price to pay to escape
the noxiousness of your acquaintance.
- (Door slams shut)
- Call in his loans.
Turn 'em out into the fields.
I will not make Elizabeth suffer
for her husband's folly.
And thanks to that promissory note,
I do not need to.
- I cannot but admire Francis.
- What?
Well, he's not as handsome as some,
nor as daring...
..but he has a wisdom,
and he'd value his own skin.
- He'll maybe live longer on that account.
- Do I not have wisdom?
Can you tell if a man
be a traitor to his friends or no?
Perhaps you should have married my cousin.
He's a good man.
He has things that you lack.
Though you have things that he lacks.
Put the two ofyou together
and that would make a complete man.
Do I leave such a lot to be desired?
Yes, Ross. A lot to be desired.
(Whispers) Ssssh! Don't wake Mama.
Papa has to be off early
to the mine to start the blasting.
I'll be home in time to read you a story.
(Mine pump pounding)
I've told Henshawe I'll set the fuses myself.
Shall we go below?
By all means.
I have a feeling our fortunes will change today.
They'll need to,
after what I said to George last night.
- You're in haste.
- I have a rendezvous.
With Caroline?
Don't excite yourself. It'll come to nothing!
We could not be less suited.
- She is an heiress and I am...
- As lowly as a kitchen maid?
May not a woman confer status
as well as a man? Ross raised me up.
And Ross knows he was entirely the winner
in that transaction.
- Ma'am.
- Thank you.
- Yah!
- (Horse gallops away)
Here's to copper, gentlemen.
(Small explosion and fizzing)
(Muffled explosion)
- Anything?
- What do you make ofthis?
Let's collect some more samples,
bring 'em above and examine them fully.
Mistress Poldark above for 'ee, Cap'n.
She say it's urgent.
You go, Ross. I'll stay here.
This came for you.
It's from Pascoe.
I'm wanted in Truro.
- Is it bad news?
- I'll know more when I see him.
I have no idea why I'm here.
Well, then you'll be glad to hear
that I'm leaving today.
Uncle Ray is angry with me.
I suspect he wants me safely locked away
until my marriage.
Which is...to be when?
Who knows?
At any rate, not Unwin. He jilted me.
Or was it the other way round?
Tell me, who is Dwight Enys?
Is he the strong, capable man
that bestrides the sick room
or the hesitant one I see here today?
A man with not the smallest fortune.
Money was never plentiful
and studying took all I had.
I hardly ever met women, except as cases.
So if you come to me with a sore throat,
I know what to do.
If I meet you in a drawing room,
you are a creature whose moods and manners
I've never learnt to decipher.
And if you laugh at me, which you frequently do,
I become tongue-tied and foolish.
Poor Dwight.
Do I show such confidence and poise?
How well I've been schooled.
While you were learning to be a physician,
I was learning to be an heiress.
An heiress must learn how to walk,
to dress, to ride, to dance...
You say you don't know women
except as patients.
I don't know men at all.
What would you like to know?
And now...no doubt you hate me.
And now, no doubt I hate you.
I must go.
Until December.
But nothing will change.
One thing will change.
In December, I come of age.
Did Francis make his peace with George
last night?
Not as far as I know.
When can I go down the mine, Mama?
- When copper is found?
- Will it be?
I've never seen Francis
more convinced of anything.
Or more determined to be the one to find it?
He's been so long in Ross's shadow.
I think he wants to earn his admiration.
And yours?
Since it's to be your last night with us,
I've asked Mrs Tabb for a special dessert.
(Mine pump pounding)
Have you seen Captain Henshawe
or Zacky Martin?
- Jus' missed 'em, sir. Can I be of service?
- Damn.
Erm...no, no matter. I'll ride to Nampara.
Thank you.
Francis.
Ross has not yet returned from Truro.
'Tis never copper?
I hardly dare hope but...
..yes, yes, I think it may be.
(Exclaims)
(Both laugh)
I must get back to the mine. Will you have Ross
take a look when he returns?
Will... Will you not stay and ask him yourself?
He'll be that relieved.
It's my dearest wish to be of use to him...
..to make amends.
You do not ask me
what amends I need to make.
I'm not sure I wish to know.
- Yet I think I must tell you.
- Francis, there's no need.
Years ago, when the Carnmore Copper
Company fought for its life,
George came to me one evening.
Verity had left and I blamed you
for her marriage.
And in my rage I gave George the names
ofthe Carnmore shareholders.
I suspect Ross, and you,
already have some inkling but...
..I've never had the courage
to come and tell you outright.
But you can't rebuild a friendship
by ignoring what destroyed it, so...
..so now you know.
- I'll go now.
- Wait, Francis.
Ifwe break now,
we'll only hurt each other all the more.
One bad thing does not outweigh
the many good.
'Tis the balance that counts.
You believe that?
(Exhales)
I don't wonder Ross loves you.
Do you suppose he still does?
You doubt it?
Sometimes I think he loves Elizabeth better.
May I tell you something, Demelza?
You have one failing.
And that is that you don't think well enough
of yourself.
You came here as a miner's daughter
and married into this ancient family.
And you took its standards as your own.
So you mistake your own value.
Ross was a wise man when he chose you.
He will not forget it.
But Elizabeth is...so lovely, well bred.
And she's Ross's first love.
How can I compete with perfection?
You must do away with the notion
that someone has done you a favour
by letting you into this family.
Will you do that?
I'll try.
George Warleggan has my promissory note?
Alas so.
I'd not expect much sympathy
for any request to extend the loan period.
- Night, sur.
- Good night, sur.
(Rumbling and pounding of pump)
- Is it serious?
- Yes. And physic will not cure it.
- What will?
- Your presence here is what she craves.
- And you have a life elsewhere.
- So what's to be done?
In matters ofthe heart,
I think you must be the physician, ma'am.
Thank you.
I must leave you tomorrow, Aunt.
I have a husband and a home to return to.
But they don't need you
as Trenwith needs you.
'Tis not as if you have children.
And the cards.
Today they threaten some impending ill.
Which perhaps only you can prevent?
(Coughs and sniffs)
(Gasps)
- (Rock collapses)
- Aagh!
(Gasps and splutters)
Help me!
(Grunts)
Is there anybody there?
Help me!
Help!
Will Francis be dining with us?
I've sent to Nampara for him.
(Door closes)
(Footsteps approach)
My debt is in the hands ofthe Warleggans.
- By Christmas I must find £1 ,400.
- Or else?
We lose everything we own
and I go to debtors' prison.
(Footsteps approach)
Someone come from Trenwith
lookin' for Mr Francis.
Is he not at the mine?
At this hour?
Help!
Somebody!
(Grunts)
(Gasps)
(Groans and winces)
HENSHAWE:
I came as quickly as I could.
Is it Mr Francis?
I think he may still be down below.
No one's seen him for hours.
Demelza, wait here.
(Coughs and groans)
Some ofthe men saw him
heading for the 30 level.
Then we start there and work our way through.
Francis?
(Verity reads quietly)
(Reads aloud)
(Clock ticks)
Thank you, Prudie.
Captain Henshawe sent for me.
Is it an accident?
Francis is missing.
(Laboured breathing)
(Echoing laughter and waves breaking)
(Children's laughter echoes)
Francis?
- Let's try the lower levels.
- Go easy.
There's still a lot ofwater down there.
(Clock ticks)
(Echoing laughter)
Ross! Help me!
(Weakly) Ross.
ROSS: (Distant) Francis!
Francis!
Francis, are you there?
- Ross?
- Francis?
Ross.
- Give me your hand.
- I knew you'd come!
(Water whooshes)
(Muffled water whooshing)
(Whispers) Ross...
(Water bubbling echoes)
Mr Francis!
Francis!
Francis...
(Sobs)
Why the hell didn't you learn to swim?
(Horse approaches)
That's your father's horse.
I'll see if supper's ready.
I'll go.
(Pounding on door)
(Violin plays)